---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2012W49
---
To begin with, I've made [a post for Perl 6 Advent Calendar]. If you
were wondering why it was late, I will tell you - it's actually early.
Somebody else has claimed article for eighth day and forgot to upload
it, so somebody had to put replacement article. I've moved my article
from 12th day to 8th day, just so Perl 6 Advent Calendar could be
continued. Moritz, to protect against that, put the just-in-case
article about exceptions (it's exceptional), if that would happen
again.

Enough talking about Perl 6 Advent Calendar, as obviously this blog
post isn't about it. Every week, I describe changes in Perl 6 and
its implementations. This is yet another article about changes.

Jonathan Worthington lately was working on improving syntax errors
messages in Rakudo Perl. Now they are better and more accurate,
just like they're already in STD.pm6 or Niecza.

### New features
#### Rakudo Perl
* Syntax errors now provide context using ⏏ symbol, just like STD.pm6
  does.
* Rakudo is now more accurate about error locations and doesn't inform
  about errors on line 1 (like missing semicolon) that actually are on
  line 777.
* Syntax errors now have colors.

#### Niecza Perl
* A `.join` method isn't O(N<sup>4</sup>) anymore.
* A `~` infix operator is faster.
* Numeric ranges are faster.

[a post for Perl 6 Advent Calendar]: https://perl6advent.wordpress.com/2012/12/08/day-8-panda-package-manager/ "Perl 6 Advent Calendar: Day 8 - Panda package manager"
