---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2012W38
---
Another week, another Perl 6 changes report. I hope that changes
mentioned on this list will be exciting. Developers still work on
Perl 6 - actually they have worked since 2000. Rakudo is still slow,
but it's on average 30 times faster compared to Rakudo Star 2010.07
(but please note that 120% of statistics are made up).

This week is special because Niecza v22 was released - all changes on
this list are in current Niecza release.

### Incompatible Changes
#### Rakudo Perl
* `LAZY` statement prefix was removed.

### Deprecations
#### Rakudo Perl
* Prototypes for built-in routines will be more generic. Currently,
  `chr` has prototype of `proto sub chr(|) {*}`. In 2012.11, it will
  have `proto sub chr($) {*}` as prototype.
* Hyper operators won't be recursive in 2012.11.

### New features
#### Perl 6 specification
* Added [`expmod`][expmod]. It's optimized version of
  `$variable ** $power % modulo`.
* Added [`is-prime`][is-prime]. As name says, it checks if integer is
  prime number.

#### STD.pm6
* `q:val//` is now parsed.

#### Rakudo Perl
* Optimizer doesn't inline routines which got wrapped before `CHECK`
  time.
* In the error "Cannot wrap a HardRoutine, since it may have been
  inlined; use the 'soft' pragma to avoid marking routines has hard.",
  word "has" was changed to "as" (or as Perl 5/6 programmer would call
  it - `s/has/as/`).
* Fixed the bug which caused `require` to clobber `GLOBAL`.
* `KeySet` (the class itself, not its objects) now can be stringified
  without following error: "Parameter `''` requires an instance, but a
  type object was passed".
* Action methods default to `Mu` because it has less methods than
  `Any`. This way, action methods are less prone to name conflicts.
  The real fix for the problem will appear in future.
* Added [`expmod`][expmod].
* Added [`is-prime`][is-prime].
* Added `IO.flush` method to manually flush filehandle.
* `prompt` now uses `flush` on `$*OUT`.
* Moved `is_dispatcher` from `Code` to `Routine`. It didn't worked on
  `Code` anyways as it depended on attribute from `Routine`.

#### Niecza Perl
* Added `hypot` subroutine. It implements [Pythagorean addition].
* Added [`expmod`][expmod].
* Added [`is-prime`][is-prime].
* `ln` now handles big integers.
* `cmp` can compare hashes.

[Pythagorean addition]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagorean_addition "Wikipedia: Pythagorean addition"
[expmod]: http://doc.perl6.org/type/Int#expmod "Perl 6: The documentation for Int.expmod"
[is-prime]: http://doc.perl6.org/type/Int#is-prime "Perl 6: The documentation for Int.is-prime"
