---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2012W37
---
Starting with this week, I plan mentioning changes in Perl 6
and its implementations just so you will know what to expect, so you
could update your code and use new features in your code to simplify
old logic.

### Incompatible Changes
#### Perl 6 specification
* Hyper operators aren't recursive anymore. This feature turned out to
  break code like `@array-of-hashes»<key>` which recursively iterated
  hash values in array.

#### Rakudo Perl
* `Str.capitalize` was deprecated and will be removed in Rakudo 2012.11.
  You're expected to use [`Str.wordcase`][wordcase] instead.

### New features
#### Perl 6 specification
* `require` now returns module it has imported.
* Added `List.duckmap`. This method evaluates expression for every
  element. If map function will give undefined value, `List.duckmap`
  is applied recursively to every element if it's list.
* Added `List.deepmap`. It works like `List.map`, except it's
  recursive when element has `Iterable` role.

#### STD.pm6
* TCLish `-foo => 'bar'` form is now allowed.
* When using `${0}`, `$(-1)` is not recommended instead as replacement
  anymore.
* It's now possible to recompile CORE5 setting.
* `$^N` now recommends `$[*-1]` instead of `$-1`.
* Deprecated variables don't require comma, space or semicolon after
  them anymore to be detected as deprecated variable and not just
  syntax error. This allows them to be detected in cases like `$|++`.

#### Rakudo Perl
* [`Str.wordcase`][wordcase] was implemented.
* `{*}` can be used in `proto` to run actual code. {% highlight perl %}
# Memoize function
proto complex-calculation($argument) {
    state %cache;
    %cache{$argument} //= {*};
}
multi complex-calculation (Int $argument) {
    rand + $argument;
}{% endhighlight %}
* The first matching constrained candidate rule for multi-dispatch is
  now used instead of returning error. This causes `is default` to be
  optional in cases like this: {% highlight perl %}
multi sub fizzbuzz(Int $ where * %% 15) is default { 'FizzBuzz' }
multi sub fizzbuzz(Int $ where * %%  5)            { 'Buzz' }
multi sub fizzbuzz(Int $ where * %%  3)            { 'Fizz' }
multi sub fizzbuzz(Int $number        )            { $number }
(1 .. 100)».&fizzbuzz.join("\n").say;{% endhighlight %}
* `infix:<X>` is now somewhat faster.
* Perl 5 regexes now can match non-alphanumerics without a meaning as
  literal characters and `\B` (not a boundary) is now implemented
  correctly.
* `run` doesn't throw exceptions on Windows platforms.
* General performance improvements in NQP thanks to implementing
  lexical natively typed variables.
* `$variable.Str` when `$variable` is `Mu` shows "use of uninitialized
  $variable of type Mu in string context" as it should instead of
  confusing "Method 'VAR' not found for invocant of class 'Mu'" error
  message.

[wordcase]: http://doc.perl6.org/type/Str#wordcase "Perl 6: The documentation for Str.wordcase"
