---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2012W42
---
I know I'm early today. It's always better than being late. Well,
[Gabor Szabo] requested that I should make those articles early Sunday.
I'm going to instead write their early version late Saturday and update
them with Sunday changes instead - I hope it won't be too problematic.

Obviously, Perl 6 has changed, otherwise I wouldn't write this.

Rakudo 2012.10 was released (not star, just normal Rakudo version) -
it has code-name Tokyo which is host of YAPC::Asia 2012.

### Incompatible changes
#### Rakudo Perl
* `~/.perl6/lib` will disappear from default include path in 2012.11.
  Instead, you will have to use `~/.perl6/$rakudo-version/lib`.

### New features
#### Perl 6 specification
* Added [`Str.trim-leading`][trim-leading] and
  [`Str.trim-trailing`][trim-trailing].
* `Any` is a class.

#### STD.pm
* Missing assignment on `s[]` in now detected correctly.
* When using `-` in character classes, using `\-` is also suggested in
  addition to `..`.

#### Rakudo Perl
* Fixed multi-dispatch segfaults that could happen in certain cases.
* Pod tests now pass on Win32.
* `/ :is /` isn't allowed anymore, before it was parsed as `/ :i s /`.
* Importing of custom meta-objects only affects their scope.
* `<->` (`is rw` lambdas) now parses correctly.
* Nested delimiters like `q[ [] ]` are parsed correctly - previously
  Rakudo was thinking that string is `q[ ]]`.
* It's now possible to create class methods using `::("name")` syntax.
* Rakudo now searches for modules in following locations:
  * `$install-path/lib/parrot/$parrot-version/languages/perl6`
  * `$install-path/lib/parrot/$parrot-version/languages/perl6/vendor`
  * `$install-path/lib/parrot/$parrot-version/languages/perl6/site`
  * `~/.perl6/$rakudo-version/lib`
* `eval` now sees correct context.
* Redeclaration of class as role gave confusing "Method
  `'add_possibility'` not found for invocant of class
  `'Perl6::Metamodel::ClassHOW'`" error message. Now it simply informs
  about redeclaration of name.
* `< a b c >` in regular expressions now respects `:i` flag.

#### Niecza Perl
* `Parcel`s and `List`s can be converted to `Array`s using `.Array`
  method.

[Gabor Szabo]: http://szabgab.com/ "home of szabgab"
[trim-leading]: http://doc.perl6.org/type/Str#trim-leading "Perl 6: The documentation for Str.trim-leading"
[trim-trailing]: http://doc.perl6.org/type/Str#trim-trailing "Perl 6: The documentation for Str.trim-trailing"
