---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2013W10
---
During making this update, I had lots of problems with Internet. I have
managed to load commits history for every repository I check, but I
haven't checked commits. Will update this after Internet access will
be more stable.

### New features
#### Perl 6 specification
* `Rat.perl` returns decimal number when denominator is normalizable
  to a power of 10.
* Added FALLBACK methods.
* Included Failure in smartmatch passthroughs.
* Loosened relationship between `Nil` and `()`.
* Added `List.permutations`.
* `rat64` type has unsigned denominator.

#### STD.pm6
* `Nil` isn't suggested for empty list in error messages anymore.

#### Rakudo Perl
* Fixed expanding of variables that don't exist when converting string
  to RegExp. For example, `"a" ~~ / <$blah> /` is fixed.
* `Rat.perl` returns decimal number when denominator is normalizable
  to a power of 10.
* Removed lots of `pir::` usage in order to help porting Rakudo to JVM.
* `Rat.perl` provides angle brackets around fractional forms.
* Added missing shellwords postcircumfixes (`<< >>` and `« »`).
* Generalized "augment" check, and made error message more generic.
* User defined circumfixes are parsed just like STD.pm6 does.
* Added colorcircumfixes.
* Rakudo now warns about integers starting with `0`.

#### Niecza Perl
* `Rat.perl` returns decimal number when denominator is normalizable
  to a power of 10.
* `CommonEnum.gist` returns `(Type)` instead of `Type()` for undefined.
* Restored `infix:<cmp>` sorting for different types.
* Failed matches return `Nil`.
