---
layout: post
title:  Perl 6 changes - 2013W08
---
Now, I'm back to the your regularly scheduled Perl 6 changes article
that isn't. Well, it is, but it's not. Or something. Rakudo 2013.02.1
was released (well, 2013.02 was released too). The version bump was
caused by the fact that NQP 2013.02 had broken native call support.

### Incompatible changes
#### Perl 6 specification
* Failed matches result `Nil`, not `(Match)`.

### New features
#### Perl 6 specification
* Removed `Set.powerset`. It was removed after 10 hours of existing.
  Consider it a printing error in my previous article, or something.
  Not really an incompatible change, as it practically never existed.
* Type placeholders (like `Int`, which is null, except Int typed)
  now have their `.gist` method show their name within parens to
  suggest being undefined. For example, `(Int)`, `(Mu)`.

#### Rakudo Perl
* The sink context now can be detected. Side-effect-free operations,
  constants and variables warn about it.
* Compiler warns about apparent subscripts in regexes being treated
  as regexes (for example, `@a[0]`, which is treated as any of `@a`
  elements followed by `0`).
* It's possible to interpolate arrays in regular expressions.
* Added `int64` native type.
* `/./` and `rx/./` now matches against `$_` in sink context.
* `$feature is not yet implemented. Sorry.` error message doesn't have
  `is` anymore.
* Coercive type declarations make not yet implemented error.

#### Niecza Perl
* Type placeholders (like `Int`, which is null, except Int typed)
  now have their `.gist` method show their name within parens to
  suggest being undefined. For example, `(Int)`, `(Mu)`.
